Add schema proposals (#643)
apollographql/docs: src/content/graphos/delivery/propose-changes.mdx

---

<GraphOSEnterpriseRequired />

This article describes actions in the **Proposal creation** stage of the [schema proposal process](./schema-proposals#proposal-process).

```mermaid
graph LR
    subgraph Draft ["Proposal creation"]
    direction LR
    Creation["Start proposal"]
    DraftStatus(("Draft status"))
    Edit["Edit subgraphs, lint, <br/> save, and check changes"]
    Request["Request reviews"]
    Creation -->  DraftStatus --> Edit --> Request
    end
    class DraftStatus secondary;
    class DraftStatus CircleSize50;
```

## Start a proposal

You can create a new proposal in [GraphOS Studio](https://studio.apollographql.com?referrer=docs-content) from a graph's proposals list. To access the proposals list page, either:

  - Click the pencil icon with the tooltip that says **Go to schema change proposals**.

    <img
      src="../img/schema-proposals/proposals-list-page.jpg"
      className="screenshot"
      alt="Graphs page in Studio"
    />
  
  - [Coming soon] Open the proposals list page from the left navigation.

Follow the steps below to create a new proposal:

> 1. Click the **Propose changes** button in the top right. A modal entitled **Propose schema changes** appears.

Reviewer: Is `dialog` an accurate and more common replacement for `modal` here?

```suggestion
1. Click the **Propose changes** button in the top right. A dialog titled **Propose schema changes** appears.
```

    <Note>

    If you want to edit the proposal's README later, you can do so from its [**Overview** tab](./review-proposals/#overview).

    </Note>

5. Click **Create Proposal**.

Once you've created the proposal, you land on the newly created proposal's **Editor** tab. This tab is where you make the schema changes you want to propose.

## Edit subgraph schemas

You can directly edit one or more subgraph schemas on a proposal's **Editor** tab.

<img
  src="../img/schema-proposals/subgraph-schema-editor.jpg"
  className="screenshot"
  alt="Schema proposals editor in Studio"
/>

To start a new subgraph, click **+Add new** from the subgraph schema selector in the left nav.
You can also delete existing subgraphs and rename newly created ones by clicking the **•••** menu to the right of a subgraph's name.

<img
  src="../img/schema-proposals/subgraph-schema-selector.jpg"
  className="screenshot"
  alt="Schema proposals editor in Studio"
  width="200px"
/>

### Lint changes

> To lint the schema changes you've made, click the broom icon in the top right of the editor.

Reviewer: Is `Lint schema` the screen reader name for the broom icon in Studio, and can we use that here?

```suggestion
To lint the schema changes you've made, click the Lint schema icon in the top right of the editor.
```
